[AUDIO LOGO]
>> On the northwest edge of
the volcanic Ring of Fire is
the mysterious land
known as China.
Legends of ascended masters
echo throughout this region,
where abandoned megalithic
quarries, underground temples,
and pyramids provide
clues to a time
before the Earth endured
1,200 years of climate chaos
throughout the
Younger Dryas period.
As alternative
researchers examine
the pre-diluvian
evidence and wisdom
from this mythological
province, there is little doubt
that this land of
the dragons has
had a powerful
influence on humanity
throughout ancient history.
>> Almost universally ancient
texts and traditions tell us
that we are living in a
world that they call a dream.
We're living in illusion.
Along with those
ancient traditions,
we've always been
given the opportunity
to have guides that
help us along the way
or what many people
call ascended masters.
All of this points to a
unity and a continuity
in our experience that
there is a knowledge,
and there is a wisdom
that began long ago.
And as we embrace what that
wisdom means to us today,
it gives us what we
need to become the best
versions of ourselves
and, certainly, to create
the best world possible.
>> Some people have trouble with
the whole concept of ascended
masters, of this idea of
humans who have transformed
into higher spiritual beings.
But almost every world
tradition speaks of this.
In the ASEAN tradition,
the Jewish mystics
at the time of Jesus, they
spoke of a pre-flood race
of perfect light
humans who existed side
by side with the
rest of humanity
and continued to influence
humanity after the cataclysm.
Perfect light humans is very
resonant with the concept
of ascended masters.
So in different
historical traditions,
we find references
to a parallel version
of humanity-- an ascended or
enlightened version of humanity
that coexists with
the rest of humanity.
>> At the end of Younger Dryas--
and you had this incredible
catastrophe which reshapes
the entire world--
you have groups of people called
the Seven Sages, the Seven
Rishi, the Seven Ascended
Masters, all seven, and they
all share the same attributes.
And they all seem
to be coming out
of this central
location in the Pacific,
and they're going
towards the mainland.
It seems that they
lived on islands,
and it was only
the fact that they
had lost their homelands
that forced them
onto the continental shelf.
And it's at this
moment in history
where we, as hunter-gatherers
at the time, suddenly,
inherited these
incredible stories
of the arrival of Seven Sages.
And they helped kick
start civilization.
So you have it in Japan.
You have it in China.
You have it all the way
around the Asian coastline.
And you have also
the appearance out
of nowhere of these teachings.
And the one unifying
thing is the fact
that they are described exactly
the same way the teachings
follow the same principles.
They're brought there during
the same period of time,
and they also
achieved the same aim,
which is the enlightenment
of the individual.
And the school of
thought and the direction
from where all these
ideas come always
end up going back to the
center of the Pacific.
In the ascended
master tradition,
we're told that the Ascended
Masters went to various places
around the planet,
especially high places--
Machu Picchu, Tibet,
other places in China.
Even the Great
Pyramid are locations
where they were repositories for
the knowledge of the Ascended
Masters, where they
specifically took this knowledge
for safekeeping and would
be able to then retrieve it
after the cataclysm.
So this seems to be one of
the key roles of the Ascended
Masters is to assist
humanity in their development
and then to preserve
knowledge and elements
of our civilization
in times of cataclysm.
>> Throughout history, China
has been the legendary home
of several spiritual masters,
such as Confucius, Guanyin,
and Lao Tzu.
The creation myths
of Nüwa and Fuxi
mirror that of several
other cultures.
But when alternative researchers
compare physical evidence
from China with other ancient
sites around the planet,
the mystery and
lore of this land
adds more cracks in
the mainstream timeline
for the rise of civilization.
>> China is a very
interesting culture.
Today, it represents the
longest running and still
running culture
anywhere on the planet.
I think what is also
very interesting
about China is that there
is significant evidence
for a pre-existing
or prior civilization
that may have existed
in that same region.
You also have really interesting
and mysterious locations
that seem to point to a much
longer history of civilization
in that area.
And some of that may tie back to
any of the ancient civilization
stories, be they Mu or Atlantis.
We don't really know.
But I think what's clear is
that there was this-- whatever
ancient civilization was on
the planet during that time.
They were certainly
occupying the area
that we call China today.
>> Everyone is so focused
on looking at ancient Egypt
or ancient South America that
they don't even realize that
there's unbelievably big,
megalithic cut stone is
in China.
And I think we all need to
be having a much deeper look
at that side of the world.
>> Of all the evidence
around the world from ancient
civilizations that seem to
predate the Younger Dryas,
what we find is that China seems
to have reached the greatest
sophistication in terms of
megalithic construction of any
of the civilizations
in the world.
And the best place we
can find that is a place
called the Yangshan Quarry.
The Yangshan Quarry
contains, by far,
the largest megalithic
single block
ever cut in human history.
To give a comparison for
understanding how large it is,
the second largest block we have
from a megalithic civilization
is in Baalbek, Lebanon.
In the quarry at
Baalbek, Lebanon,
there is an unfinished
block that is 1,200 tons.
For comparison's sake,
at the Yangshan Quarry,
the unfinished block that
was being incorporated
into the rest of
their structures
is estimated to be 16,000 tons.
>> The other curious thing
that relates the two places,
both Baalbek and Yangshan, are
that it appears that something
caused the instantaneous
stoppage of work,
as if there was some kind
of cataclysmic event that
happened, maybe at the
same time, maybe not.
That caused work at both
locations to immediately cease.
The large stones in
Yangshan are likely
the largest megalithic
block attempt
at cutting huge stone in all of
the world, in all of history.
>> Think about it for a second.
You have a block so large, that
even with our modern cranes
today, and all of
our technology,
we'd be unable to
move this block.
How is this ancient civilization
even able to cut it or move it?
Now some have speculated that
it's a natural formation,
and that's why it's so
large and impossible.
I would urge people to study
the actual site itself.
And what you do, when you
look into the ancient quarry,
is you find, it's
a complex that's
part of something much greater.
It's part of a
set of structures.
Now, this massive, massive
block that's 16,000 tons,
you find that it was in the
process of being dressed,
moved, and put into place
with the existing structures
that were there.
We know that.
Because underneath the block,
we found these massive grooves
that were cut in
underneath to basically
almost lift the whole thing
out of the host stone.
Now, nearby, these enormous
set of pillars of rock
that they've basically
already finished carving
have these types of
grooves cut into them
that seem impossible
with any tools
present to any
civilization we know of.
When we look into
the sophistication
of the 90-degree angles in some
of the cuts of these squares
that are taken out
of these blocks,
it baffles researchers
today on what
could have even carved that.
What could have even made
those types of grooves,
especially not using
Bronze Age tools.
But one of the things
that's compelling is that
on these finished structures
are these gigantic knob-like
intrusions.
Now that type of
knob-like feature
is the telltale
sign that connects
other pre-diluvian
civilizations around the world.
>> At the ancient
quarry in China,
we find these curious
protrusions or knobs,
and you also see evidence of
those also in Peru at different
locations, and the Menkaure
third pyramid on the Giza
Plateau in Egypt.
Now the conventional
story is that the knobs
were there so that
the workers could
put a rope underneath where
the knob is and then lift it up
and push the stone
into position.
But when you're talking about
the Yangshan Quarry stone
being 16,000 tons,
that is way beyond
the capacity of any
human civilization
to be able to
manipulate whatsoever.
So I think, honestly, the
knobs were a leftover artifact
during the construction
at all of these locations
and probably had something
to do with energy.
Or that they were
left there on purpose
as simply the result
of the manufacturing
process, that they
were an artifact that
was to be cut off at some point
to make the surface smooth.
But for some reason,
work stopped,
as we said, at these locations.
So, therefore, the knobs
still exist as artifacts
of the manufacturing process.
>> The Yangshan Quarry is
one of the more fascinating
and mysterious places
that you'll find anywhere
on the planet.
It represents a class of other
unfinished massive megalithic
projects that we see
all around the world.
For example, there's
the unfinished obelisk
that's in the Aswan
Quarry in Egypt,
approximately 1,200 tons also
still attached to the bedrock.
We have the unfinished
quarrying works at Baalbek,
with stones approaching 2,000
tons in the quarry over there.
And also, in Egypt, it's
a lesser known site,
but there's something
called the Minya Quarry.
Giant limestone
megaliths attached
to the bedrock, one
of these weighing up
approximately 5,000
tons, again, hasn't
been removed from the bedrock.
It's a trend that we see on
a lot of the megalithic sites
around the world that, for
some reason, at some point,
work was just stopped.
Something interrupted a
lot of these projects.
And for whatever reason that was
potentially, it was cataclysm.
We don't know.
But a lot of these
megalithic projects
seem to have just been abandoned
and stopped midway through.
>> As humanity endured 1,200
years of chaotic weather
patterns during the
Younger Dryas period,
underground sites around the
planet are thought to have
helped humanity live through
this dramatic time period.
An astounding discovery located
between Hong Kong and Shanghai
deepens the mystery
around the length of time
the ancient inhabitants of
China lived underground.
>> One of the most interesting
discoveries in recent times
anywhere in the world is
the Longyou Caves of China.
Now these are remarkable.
These were first
discovered only in 1992
by a local villager who was
draining some of his ponds,
and he found these huge caves.
When they descended down into
these caves, initially, five.
Although, there are
actually about 24 of them,
19 still have to be excavated
or even drained of water.
But the five that have
been properly drained
and have been looked into are
these incredibly vast chambers
with these pillars, which are
over 100 feet tall inside them.
And they have this
incredible acoustic ability.
Any sound is carried
throughout of them,
and they stretch for about
120 feet in one direction,
possibly about 60 to
70 feet in another.
They are aligned so that the sun
shines down in them perfectly.
But also, there is only just
one entrance down into them.
And this is down through
a vertical staircase that
allows not just
sunlight, but also water
to enter inside them.
And the water would be
channeled through them so
that it wouldn't just fill up.
So in other words,
this was a part
of the actual design of them.
Some of the caves have got
the most beautiful frescoes
on the walls that have
been chiseled into them.
And these show animals.
They show human beings
and also dragons.
There's dragons
curling their way
around some of these pillars.
But also, in addition to
that, the actual chamfering
of the walls, the chisel
marks are actually unique.
They're in these
strange parallel lines,
which seem to be found nowhere
else in the Eurasian continent.
>> There are tool marks--
horizontal tool marks going
from the bottom, all the way
to the top, which could not
have been done with hand tools.
They seem to be bands
of about 2 feet,
going all the way from
the bottom to the top.
And I think that
would have had to have
been done by some kind of very
advanced ancient technology,
long before the existence of
what we presently call China.
But by a very
advanced civilization
that existed long before
what conventional history
calls history, so into
the realm of prehistory.
>> So perhaps, there was some
kind of ancient technology,
ancient machining that did this.
Some people have even speculated
that aliens came down and did
this because they needed
a certain type of stone
to take away with them.
Because no one really
knows where the stone went,
what happened to it.
There's no rubble.
There's no dust.
And this is sandstone as well.
So this isn't a soft stone
we're dealing with here.
It's a pretty tough stone.
- One of the things
that's baffling
is that there's no evidence
of their construction.
Over a million
metric tons of stone
were removed from those caverns.
But when archeologists
go around the area,
they can't find any of it.
One of the other things
that mystifies them
is that there isn't any
evidence of the people that
built these caves.
There's no villages or
cemeteries or work areas.
>> When you're looking
at the Longyou Caves,
some comparisons could be made.
This is like an
underground city almost.
And so, it's got
comparisons, really,
with places like
Derinkuyu or Kaymakli
in the Cappadocia region of
Turkey, which, potentially, are
tens of thousands of years old.
No one really knows
how old they are.
And so, even though they found
pottery in the Longyou Caves
that date to around
2,000 years ago,
doesn't mean that's
when they were built.
They could be much older and
completely forgotten about.
>> They could have been places
of refuge during some kind
of cataclysm.
Now which cataclysm
that would be?
We don't know.
It could be the Younger Dryas,
or it could have been something
much later, something much
more local within China itself.
But we can see similarities
between those caves and those,
for instance, at Derinkuyu.
And here, you have these
vast underground cities,
which were constructed over a
period of time of which we have
no real understanding
of what was going on,
why they would
have been created.
The archeologists have no
idea who created these caves
or what their function
might have been.
What makes this such
a fascinating place
is that the way that this
entire cave system seems
to be designed is based
on their harmonics
and tuning with consciousness
in the human frequency.
>> The reason we know that
is the way that the walls are
designed, it has acoustic
properties that are very
specifically in tune with
the human consciousness.
And the more we look
into the specifics of how
advanced this cave
is, the more we
see it seems to be some kind of
an oracle chamber for reaching
higher states of consciousness,
a place that some
of these adepts in
these sages and masters
could go and seek a
place to practice,
to reach these higher states.
>> The Longyou Caves are not
only places of refuge during
times of cataclysm, but
they are what are referred
to as hypogeums, a term
that's most obviously used
in connection with
the hypogeum in Malta,
which is another
underground complex,
which we know was used
for ritual purposes.
So that's the
commonality with all
of these places underground.
>> As more evidence continues
to surface of a potential
pre-diluvian
civilization in China,
the area around Sian holds
more mysterious clues.
In 1912, while walking
through the Shaanxi Province,
American travel agent
Fred Meier Schroeder
spotted a giant white pyramid.
Then in 1945, this
pyramid was introduced
to the Western world,
when a US Army pilot named
James Gaussman reported
and allegedly photographed
a huge white pyramid while
flying over a valley, Southwest
of Sian.
A few years later,
"The New York Times"
used Gaussman's
alleged photograph
and reported a story from
the director of Trans World
Airlines, Colonel
Morris Sheahan,
stating that he was flying over
a Valley Southwest of Sian,
when he spotted a huge pyramid.
Further stories
surfaced, and the pyramid
was later identified
as the well known tomb
of Emperor Wu of Han,
located Northwest of Sian.
Could these sightings
from the 1900s
be pointing to a different
pyramid than this emperor's
tomb, and how many
other pyramids does
this mysterious region hold?
>> One of the other fascinating
archeological discoveries
in China are the pyramids
of the Sian Province.
Now there are dozens of these
pyramids all over the area,
many of them are now
almost covered up
with orchards and forests
and things like this.
But some of them
are quite famous.
The famous one with
the Terracotta Army
was found underneath
it and so forth.
And these are supposed to be
the mausoleums or the burial
places of ancient
emperors going back
a couple of thousand years.
But some of these are huge.
We have the famous
white pyramid,
it was called when it
was first discovered.
It was first spotted
by people flying
over the area in
the early 1900s.
And this caused a
sensation because pyramids
aren't supposed to exist there.
They exist in Mexico.
They existed in Egypt,
but that was it, really.
But now, they're being
found everywhere.
We have the Black Stone
Pyramids of Sicily and Tenerife
and Mauritius.
We also have a
ziggurat type structure
found in Northern Sardinia
called Monte d'Accoddi, which
dates back 6,000 years.
We have the temples in Cambodia
and Southeast Asia, which
are very similar to
some of the pyramids we
find in Guatemala and Mexico.
And the list goes on.
So the ones in China, to
me, it just represents
this global awareness
and global conversation
that was taking place
in ancient times,
where the technologies,
the building styles,
and the constructions are found
with a very similar style all
over the world.
>> Pyramid building is a
phenomenon that exists all
around the world.
So if you can attribute either
the roots of that tradition
and the seeds of that idea
to a common ancestor culture,
then, for sure, I think
that the civilization that
built the pyramids in China
were likely part of that
or certainly connected to it.
>> Besides the wonders
of the Longyou Caves,
the Yangshan Quarry, and
the Great White Pyramid,
the most sophisticated structure
we find in China is known
as the Tomb of the General.
Now much that we find in
other parts of the world,
there's never been evidence
of any general that
was ever buried here.
Was this actually a tomb?
The more we've looked into
studied this structure, as well
as the similarities it
has to other pre-diluvian
megalithic pyramids and temples
around the world, the more
that we find that it
may have been mislabeled
and misrepresented
as being a tomb,
when it's actually a
sacred temple pyramid.
That's very similar to a
structure such as Teotihuacan
in Mexico, one of these
pyramids with a flat top.
Now the reason why we know
that this structure was not
built to be a tomb was
that the blocks that
were used to build it were
some of the most highly
sophisticated megalithic
construction we see anywhere
in the world, telling us that
it was from this time period
before the Younger Dryas.
When we look at the seven levels
of the Tomb of the General,
is that supposed to
represent the seven
levels of higher consciousness,
the seven chakras?
It seems to represent these
higher states of consciousness.
So we must reevaluate all
of these ancient structures,
like the Tomb of the General,
to give it an entirely different
purpose in light,
to understand what
its true purpose was long ago.
>> As the relics scattered
throughout China point
to a time of sophisticated
masonry and architecture,
the question remains--
when were these relics
created, and how advanced
was this ancient civilization?
>> Ancient ancestors,
once upon a time,
how technologically and
scientifically advanced were
they?
Do we assume that they were all
basically just nomadic hunter
gatherers for 200,000 years?
And then suddenly,
after the Younger Dryas,
we invent urban complexes,
domestication of animals,
we create all these languages.
Did all of that just happen
within that millennia or two
after the last
global catastrophe?
And then for 200,000
years before that,
we never advanced
beyond hunter gatherers?
And if we did advance,
how far did we advanced?
And if we advanced
scientifically
and technologically, do we
assume that it looked just
like what we've done?
Not necessarily.
And if we're looking for a
mirror of our own civilization
in the past, we may not
find it because it may not
have looked anything like
our own civilization.
See, this opens up all kinds
of interesting possibilities
that, I think, are
worth exploring.
I think it was William Davis,
the founder of geomorphology,
back in the early 20th century
was castigating his colleagues.
Because he said, you guys
need to expand your thinking
and quit being so
afraid of what he called
the outrageous hypothesis.
Because, sometimes, maybe
that outrageous hypothesis
may explain things better
than the more normal stuff.
>> It's mind-boggling,
the precision,
the way that they
could cut stones,
these ancient civilizations.
They could smooth stone,
shape stone, and move stone.
But in a time period
that, according
to traditional
archeology, they shouldn't
have been able to do that.
Or they couldn't have
done it with the tools
that we have in the
archeological record.
So it really points to the
idea that these guys had
a skill set that we've lost.
It was lost at some point
between then and now.
It's gone.
We cannot replicate and move
stones in the same way that
these civilizations could.
So to me, it really highlights
and points to an idea
that we have lost
something in time.
Something happened that
stopped the progression
of that technology.
>> We don't know everything yet.
We're still-- there's
whole areas of science
that we're only just
beginning to explore,
and it's certainly
possible to me
that ancient civilizations
may have progressed down
an entirely different
field of technology,
field of science, something
that we don't fully understand.
So when we look at
the past, and we
look at these puzzles
that are presented
to us in the form of
megalithic architecture
or precision-made
massive stone objects,
we have to be open-minded
enough to consider
the fact that the
solutions to these problems
may exist outside of our current
sphere of reference or outside
of our current
field of technology.
And doing it that way
is really the only way
that we're ever going to
learn something about it.
If we just dismiss it
and say, no, no, this
was all done by hand, and it
was done with copper chisels,
then we're not going
to get anywhere.
But if we take an
open-minded approach,
and we analyze these
objects, we might actually
stand to learn
something and develop
some skills for our own
civilization in the process.
>> As the discoveries from
China continue to challenge
the mainstream timeline for
the rise of civilization,
what other evidence will be
discovered to link the ancient
inhabitants of this mysterious
land to the powerful
pre-diluvian civilizations
of Mu and Atlantis that were
destroyed but not forgotten?